# TLS Protect for Kubernetes Operator
js-operator is a tool to manage the configuration and installation of TLS Protect for Kubernetes (previously Jetstack Secure) components and resources.

The js-operator expects to manage cert-manager CRDs. Currently users have to uninstall cert-manager CRDs when migrating to the operator-managed installation. This means that cert-manager Certificate custom resources will get deleted and will have to be re-applied. Temporarily removing Certificates is possible without losing the actual TLS Certificates stored in Secrets- see cert-manager backup and restore guide

## Venafi Connection

The VenafiConnection custom resources are used to configure the connection and authentication between the Venafi Control Plane and your Kubernetes cluster.

The simplest way of authentication to the Venafi control plane is using the Venafi TPP access-token, Venafi-TPP username and password or Venafi-as-a-Service API Key stored as a Kubernetes secrert. The Venafi connection supports secretless authentication using JWT or storing credentails in an external secrets engine like Vault. In this sample we will use the username and password authentication. 

## VenafiEnhancedIssuer
VenafiClusterIssuer is a cluster-scoped resource and does not have a namespace. Any VenafiConnection CR referenced by a VenafiClusterIssuer MUST be in the jetstack-secure namespace, or which ever namespace you installed venafi-enhanced-issuer in.

VenafiIssuer is a "namespaced" resource. Any VenafiConnection CR referenced by a VenafiIssuer MUST be in the same namespace as the VenafiIssuer resource.

## Approver Policy Enterprise
The approver-policy-enterprise approver is our enterprise version of the open-source approver and includes two additional approver plugins. The Venafi plugin can be used to make policy decicisions based on the policies defined in your Venafi Control Plane. The Rego plugin adds support for writing custom complex rules using the Rego language.

### Installing the operator
The js-operator installation consists of Installation CustomResourceDefinition , js-operator and cainjector Deployments, ServiceAccounts and RBAC.

The operator is packaged as a Helm chart.

The operator image used in the manifests are published to the private TLS Protect for Kubernetes Enterprise GCR at eu.gcr.io/jetstack-secure-enterprise/js-operator. Image pull secrets are available from the TLS Protect for Kubernetes web UI.

- Run initialize to create the temporary folders and to create the jestack-secure namespace and configure it with the registry secret.

```
make init
```

- Create a Helm install for the operator

```
make install-js-operator
```
- Confirm that the operator and the operator-cainjector are up and running 
```
kubectl get po -n jetstack-secure

NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
js-operator-cainjector-547d4f5fbc-4b84v   1/1     Running   0          32s
js-operator-operator-575b48b6d5-nhxh4     1/1     Running   0          32s

```

## Configuration

The simplest way of authentication to the Venafi control plane is using the Venafi TPP access-token, Venafi-TPP username and password or Venafi-as-a-Service API Key stored as a Kubernetes secrert. The Venafi connection supports secretless authentication using JWT or storing credentails in an external secrets engine like Vault. In this sample we will use the username and password authentication. 

We will use a simple form of authentication using a Venafi-TPP username and password

- Create a secret containg the username and password for TLS Protect

```
make create-tlsp-creds
```

If you aim to use venafi-enhanced-issuer with a Venafi Control Plane instance that is served by a certificate that was signed by your company's private CA, you will want to tell venafi-enhanced-issuer which CA certificates to trust.

- Create a config map that contains the PEM to access TPP

```
make create-config-map-with-PEM-to-access-TPP
```

- Create an installation

For this Installation TLS Protect for Kubernetes Operator will create:
- cert-manager installation in jetstack-secure Namespace
- approver-policy installation in jetstack-secure Namespace
- venafienhancedissuer installation in jetstack-secure Namespace
- trust-manager installation in jetstack-secure Namespace
- VenafiConnection in the jetstack-secure namespace
- VenafiClusterIssuer
- Certificate request policy
- Required RBACs for the connection to read the secret
- Required RBACs for the Issuer and the Policy

- Create the cluster-addons installation
```
make operator-cluster-addons
```

- Confirm that the tlsp4k8s installations are up and running
```
kubectl get po -n jetstack-secure

NAME                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-845895cfb8-9qccr                   1/1     Running   0          38s
cert-manager-845895cfb8-jz7jt                   1/1     Running   0          38s
cert-manager-approver-policy-5855577cbc-ctrhn   1/1     Running   0          46s
cert-manager-approver-policy-5855577cbc-wmjxb   1/1     Running   0          46s
cert-manager-webhook-6694f5b55c-4lngl           1/1     Running   0          38s
cert-manager-webhook-6694f5b55c-xl7qw           1/1     Running   0          38s
js-operator-cainjector-547d4f5fbc-4b84v         1/1     Running   0          111m
js-operator-operator-575b48b6d5-nhxh4           1/1     Running   0          111m
trust-manager-5d46f768db-g6rjk                  1/1     Running   0          18s
trust-manager-5d46f768db-j4s7p                  1/1     Running   0          18s
venafi-enhanced-issuer-85cbff6ccc-99wvz         1/1     Running   0          46s
venafi-enhanced-issuer-85cbff6ccc-slw2w         1/1     Running   0          46s

```

- Check if the connection is created
```
kubectl get VenafiConnection -n jetstack-secure
NAME             AGE
tpp-connection   92s

```

- Check is the venaficlusterissuer is in READY state

```
kubectl get venaficlusterissuer

NAME                 READY   REASON    MESSAGE   LASTTRANSITION   OBSERVEDGENERATION   GENERATION   AGE
application-team-1   True    Checked   checked   116s             1                    1            2m1s

```

- Check if the CertificateRequestPolicy is created

```
NAME                     READY   AGE
application-team-1-vei   True    3m45s
trust-manager-crp        True    3m14s
```


## Creating certificates

Now, create a certificate by running 
```
make create-certificate1 
```

One certificate will be created and when you run 
```
kubectl get Certificate -n sandbox
```
NAME                                           READY   SECRET                                         AGE
sample-cert1.riaz-mohamed-gcp.jetstacker.net   True    sample-cert1.riaz-mohamed-gcp.jetstacker.net   69s

```

Find the relevant `CertificateRequest` resource by running

```
kubectl get CertificateRequest -n sandbox
```
You will see the following
```
NAME                                                 APPROVED   DENIED   READY   ISSUER               REQUESTOR                                            AGE
sample-cert1.riaz-mohamed-gcp.jetstacker.net-5w42t   True                True    application-team-1   system:serviceaccount:jetstack-secure:cert-manager   64s
```

Describe one of the `sample-cert?` `CertificateRequest` resource by running
```
kubectl -n sandbox describe CertificateRequest sample-cert1.example.com-zzqb6 
```
In the `Events` section you will see 

```
Events:
  Type     Reason          Age                  From                                Message
  ----     ------          ----                 ----                                -------
  Normal   Approved        2m6s                 policy.cert-manager.io              Approved by CertificateRequestPolicy: "application-team-1-vei"
  Warning  RetryableError  2m5s                 venafi-enhanced-issuer.jetstack.io  Failed to sign CertificateRequest, will retry: got a pickupId, will continue soon
  Warning  RetryableError  2m4s                 venafi-enhanced-issuer.jetstack.io  Failed to sign CertificateRequest, will retry: certificate still in a pending state, the request will be retried: WebSDK CertRequest Module Requested Certificate
  Warning  RetryableError  2m4s                 venafi-enhanced-issuer.jetstack.io  Failed to sign CertificateRequest, will retry: certificate still in a pending state, the request will be retried: Prepares the Certificate Object for lifecycle processing
  Warning  RetryableError  2m1s (x7 over 2m4s)  venafi-enhanced-issuer.jetstack.io  Failed to sign CertificateRequest, will retry: certificate still in a pending state, the request will be retried: Post CSR
  Warning  RetryableError  101s (x4 over 2m)    venafi-enhanced-issuer.jetstack.io  Failed to sign CertificateRequest, will retry: certificate still in a pending state, the request will be retried: Order Pending
  Normal   Issued          80s                  venafi-enhanced-issuer.jetstack.io  Succeeded signing the CertificateRequest
```

**NOTE** Before the `CertificateRequest` was processed it was approved by a `CertificateRequestPolicy` called `application-team-1-vei`. If the `CertificateRequest` was `Denied` the appropriate flag would have been set. 

Next, run 
```
make create-certificate2
```

This `Certificate` resource does not comply to the policy. As such, it will be `Denied`. Look at the `CertificateRequest` data by running
```
kubectl get CertificateRequest -n sandbox 
```
Among other `CertificateRequest` data you will notice the following

```
NAME                                 APPROVED   DENIED   READY   ISSUER                      REQUESTOR                                            AGE

sample-cert3.riaz-mohamed-gcp.jetstacker.net.foo-d5jsp              True     False   application-team-1   system:serviceaccount:jetstack-secure:cert-manager   13s  4s
```
The `Denied` flag is set to `True` and because of that the `Ready` flag is `False`.  **NOTE** there is an addtional strong `foo` that is not compliant with the domain name. 

Describe the `CertificateRequest` by running

```
kubectl -n sandbox describe CertificateRequest sample-cert3.example.com.foo-cbd4v
```

In the `Events` you will see
```
Events:
  Type     Reason          Age   From                                Message
  ----     ------          ----  ----                                -------
  Warning  Denied          53s   policy.cert-manager.io              No policy approved this request: [application-team-1-vei: common name sample-cert3.riaz-mohamed-gcp.jetstacker.net.foo is not allowed in this policy: [^([\p{L}\p{N}-*]+\.)*riaz-mohamed-gcp\.jetstacker\.net$]]
  Normal   DetectedDenied  53s   venafi-enhanced-issuer.jetstack.io  Detected that the CR is denied, will update Ready condition
```

While the policy itself is defined in Venafi Trust Protection Platform, it was locally enforced by the policy approver running in-cluster.

Refresh the Jetstack Secure dashboard and you will see this third certificate show up with failure details. 


