# Create policies for auto approval

In this use case we will create `CertificateRequestPolicy` resources that will allow `CertificateRequest` to be automatically approved or denied based on the defined rules

The `cert-manager-approver-policy` and the `cvenafi-enhanced-issuer` components are already installed and running in the cluster. A `CertificateRequestPolicy` is a cluster wide resource and in addition to providing the ability to define local policies can also inherit policies from Venafi and rego via plugins. The plugins are automatically installed and enabled with the Venafi Jetstack Enterprise policy approver. 

- Change to the `certificate-approver` directory from the top level
```
cd certificate-approver
```  
- Run initialize to create the temporary folders
```
make init
```
The VenafiConnection custom resources are used to configure the connection and authentication between the Venafi Control Plane and your Kubernetes cluster.

The simplest way of authentication to the Venafi control plane is using the Venafi TPP access-token, Venafi-TPP username and password or Venafi-as-a-Service API Key stored as a Kubernetes secrert. The Venafi connection supports secretless authentication using JWT or storing credentails in an external secrets engine like Vault. In this sample we will use the username and password authentication. 

- Create the venafi credentials secret
```
make create-venafi-credentials
```
- Create the venafi credentials rbac
```
make create-venafi-connection-rbac
```
- Create the venafi connection resource, this will create a connection in the jetstack-secure namespace (used by VenafiClusterIssuers), Connections can also be created in namespaces for (VenafiIssuers)
```
make create-venafi-tpp-connection
```
Check if the connection is created

```
kubectl get VenafiConnection -n jetstack-secure
NAME              AGE
vtpp-connection   59s
```

- Review the files `certificate-approver/templates/cert-policy.yaml` and `certificate-approver/templates/cert-policy-rbac.yaml`
There are several environment variables referenced here. The values themselves are set in `settings.sh`. Make sure that your Venafi Trust Protection Platform settings are correctly set. 
- Create the policy and the required RBAC. The Jetstack certificate approver will apply the policy based on what is configured in the `CertificateRequestPolicy`. You will notice that the policy will be specifically applied to what is defined in the `selector`
- When you believe you have all the right values set in `settings.sh` run the following to create the following
  - A `ConfigMap` that holds the CA that allows connection to Venafi 
  - A `Secret` that holds the *access_token* to authenticate against Venafi 
  - A `CertificateRequestPolicy` that has the policy to either `Approve` or `Deny` a `CertificateRequest`
  - A `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` that allows the `CertificateRequest` requestor to use the policy
 ```
 make create-venafi-tpp-certificate-policy
 ```   
You will see the following output. Review them.
 ```
configmap/venafi-tpp-ca-bundle created
secret/access-token created
certificaterequestpolicy.policy.cert-manager.io/cert-policy-for-apps-in-sandbox created
clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cert-manager-policy:cert-policy-for-apps-in-sandbox created
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cert-manager-policy:cert-policy-for-apps-in-sandbox created
 ```
- Make sure that the `CertificateRequestPolicy` has Ready=True
- Run the following 
```
kubectl get crp
```
At this time you will see only one `CertificateRequestPolicy` called `cert-policy-for-apps-in-sandbox`
- Describe the `CertificateRequestPolicy` resource by running
```
kubectl describe CertificateRequestPolicy cert-policy-for-apps-in-sandbox
```
You will see the following in the Events section among other things
```
Events:
  Type    Reason  Age                From                    Message
  ----    ------  ----               ----                    -------
  Normal  Ready   5s (x5 over 3m6s)  policy.cert-manager.io  CertificateRequestPolicy is ready for approval evaluation
```
This means that there is a `CertificateRequestPolicy` in place for an issuer called `sandbox-venafi-tpp-issuer` that will validate all `CertificateRequests`. The `ClusterRoleBindings` in production can be changed to `RoleBindings` and tied to specific user for more granular control. 
- At this time there is only one `selfsigned-issuer` that we created to test certificate issuance. We need to create another issuer called `sandbox-venafi-tpp-issuer` that uses Venafi to fulfil certificate requests. 
- Review `certificate-approver/templates/venafi-issuer.yaml` and make sure the referenced environment variables have their values correctly set in `settings.sh`

- To create the Clusterissuer , run the following

```
make create-venafi-issuer
```
- Confirm that the issuer has been created and it is Ready=True
```
kubectl get VenafiClusterIssuer

NAME                  READY   REASON    MESSAGE   LASTTRANSITION   OBSERVEDGENERATION   GENERATION   AGE
vtpp-cluster-issuer   True    Checked   checked   21s              1                    1            22s
```

- Before we create certificates, review the certificate resources `sample-cert` `1,2,3` in `certificate-approver/templates/` directory. The Venafi policy folder must have the ability to issue certificates for the domain referenced in the `Certificate` resource. 

## Creating certificates

Now, create a certificate by running 
```
make create-certificate1 create-certificate2
```

Two certificates will be created and when you run 
```
kubectl get Certificate -n sandbox
```
you should see the following. `test-cert` was created previously and you can ignore it.  
```
NAMESPACE   NAME                       READY   SECRET                     AGE
sandbox     sample-cert1.example.com   True    sample-cert1.example.com   69s
sandbox     sample-cert2.example.com   True    sample-cert2.example.com   13s
sandbox     test-cert                  True    test-cert                  8m49s
```

Find the relevant `CertificateRequest` resource by running

```
kubectl get CertificateRequest -n sandbox
```
You will see the following
```
NAME                             APPROVED   DENIED   READY   ISSUER                      REQUESTOR                                            AGE
sample-cert1.example.com-zzqb6   True                True    sandbox-venafi-tpp-issuer   system:serviceaccount:jetstack-secure:cert-manager   4m34s
sample-cert2.example.com-tvhn9   True                True    sandbox-venafi-tpp-issuer   system:serviceaccount:jetstack-secure:cert-manager   3m38s
test-cert-hsg7w                  True                True    selfsigned-issuer           system:serviceaccount:jetstack-secure:cert-manager   12m
```

Describe one of the `sample-cert?` `CertificateRequest` resource by running
```
kubectl -n sandbox describe CertificateRequest sample-cert1.example.com-zzqb6 
```
In the `Events` section you will see 

```
Events:
  Type    Reason             Age    From                                            Message
  ----    ------             ----   ----                                            -------
  Normal  Approved           6m32s  policy.cert-manager.io                          Approved by CertificateRequestPolicy: "cert-policy-for-apps-in-sandbox"
  Normal  IssuancePending    6m30s  cert-manager-certificaterequests-issuer-venafi  Venafi certificate is requested
  Normal  CertificateIssued  6m25s  cert-manager-certificaterequests-issuer-venafi  Certificate fetched from issuer successfully
```

**NOTE** Before the `CertificateRequest` was processed it was approved by a `CertificateRequestPolicy` called `cert-policy-for-apps-in-sandbox`. If the `CertificateRequest` was `Denied` the appropriate flag would have been set. 

**NOTE** Refresh the browser to view the 2 addtional certificates show up in the dashboard along with the information about its `Issuer`. Review the information about `CertificateRequest` , click on it to view addtional details. 

Next, run 
```
make create-certificate3
```

This `Certificate` resource does not comply to the policy. As such, it will be `Denied`. Look at the `CertificateRequest` data by running
```
kubectl get CertificateRequest -n sandbox 
```
Among other `CertificateRequest` data you will notice the following

```
NAME                                 APPROVED   DENIED   READY   ISSUER                      REQUESTOR                                            AGE

sample-cert3.example.com.foo-cbd4v              True     False   sandbox-venafi-tpp-issuer   system:serviceaccount:jetstack-secure:cert-manager   4s
```
The `Denied` flag is set to `True` and because of that the `Ready` flag is `False`.  **NOTE** there is an addtional strong `foo` that is not compliant with the domain name. 

Describe the `CertificateRequest` by running

```
kubectl -n sandbox describe CertificateRequest sample-cert3.example.com.foo-cbd4v
```

In the `Events` you will see
```
Events:
  Type     Reason  Age    From                    Message
  ----     ------  ----   ----                    -------
  Warning  Denied  3m39s  policy.cert-manager.io  No policy approved this request: [cert-policy-for-apps-in-sandbox: common name sample-cert3.example.com.foo is not allowed in this policy: [^([\p{L}\p{N}-*]+\.)*example\.com$]]
```

While the policy itself is defined in Venafi Trust Protection Platform, it was locally enforced by the policy approver running in-cluster.

Refresh the Jetstack Secure dashboard and you will see this third certificate show up with failure details. 

