# Creating a Venafi Connection

The `VenafiConnection` custom resources are used to configure the connection and authentication between the Venafi Control Plane and your Kubernetes cluster.

In this scenario we will use username/password credentials to create the `VenafiConnection` resource for TLS Protect - Datacenter and apiKey to create a `VenafiConnection` to TLS Protect - Cloud. 
For production workloads, it is recommended to use secretless authentication using JWT which is supported in TLS Protect - Datacenter 22.4+. Another option is to store the credentils (username/password or token ) in an external secret store (for e.g. Hashicorp Vault)

From the top level, change directory to go to `common` directory
```
cd common
```  

Run `make init` create the temporary folders where various resources will be generated
```
make init
```

Review [templates/venafi-secret.yaml](../common/templates/venafi-secret.yaml) This file has references to a few environment variables that are set in `settings.sh` required for creating a Kubernetes `Secret`. The `Secret` will be used to create `VenafiConnection` resources as needed. To keep the demo simple at this time, an Opaque Kubernetes secret is created that holds the *access_token* , TLS Protect - Datacenter credentials and TLS Protect - Cloud API Key. 
*NOTE* This is a demo scenario. We do not recommend this for production. In another demo we will walk through a setup where credentials are stored externally in Hashicorp Vault and used by `VenafiConnection`. 
Venafi supports secretless authentication using JWT that is tied to a service account in Kubernetes. This is our recommended approach. 

Run the following. 
```
make create-venafi-credentials
```

Validate that the secret is created. You can also review the generated file that contains the actual values in the temporary `artifacts` directory.

```
kubectl get secret/venafi-credentials -n jetstack-secure
``` 
and you should see
```
NAME                 TYPE     DATA   AGE
venafi-credentials   Opaque   4      12s
```

Review [templates/venafi-connection-rbac.yaml](../common/templates/venafi-connection-rbac.yaml) The `Role` and `RoleBinding` resources in this file is intended to ensure that the venafi-connection `ServiceAccount` can read the `Secret` created above. 

Run the following, 
```
make create-venafi-connection-rbac
```
and you should see 
```
role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/read-secret-role-for-venafi-connection created
rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/read-secret-role-for-venafi-connection created
``` 

Finally, create the `VenafiConnection` resources. Review [templates/venafi-tpp-connection.yaml](../common/templates/venafi-tpp-connection.yaml) and [templates/venafi-cloud-connection.yaml](../common/templates/venafi-cloud-connection.yaml) 

To create a `VenafiConnection` resource for TLS Protect - Datacenter run the following.
```
make create-venafi-tpp-connection
```
and you should see
```
venaficonnection.jetstack.io/vtpp-connection created
```

To create a `VenafiConnection` resource for TLS Protect - Cloud run the following.
```
make create-venafi-cloud-connection
```
and you should see
```
venaficonnection.jetstack.io/venafi-cloud-connection created
```

To validate that the `VenafiConnection` resources have been created, run

```
kubectl get VenafiConnection -n jetstack-secure
```
and you will see
```
kubectl get VenafiConnection -n jetstack-secure

NAME                AGE
venafi-connection   11s
```

These connections will be used to create the `VenafiIssuer` or `VenafiClusterIssuer` resources as required to fulfill `CertificateRequests`
