# Push certificate data to Venafi Trust Protection Platform

## Installing the certificate sync module
From the top level directory run the following 
```
make install-cert-sync-to-venafi-module
```
This will install the certificate sync module configured to push certificates that are available as TLS secrets to Venafi TPP
Run the following to validate that the addtional module is installed.
```
kubectl get pods -n jetstack-secure
```
The `cert-sync-to-venafi` release should be installed and it's the state should be `Ready=2/2`

```
❯ kubectl get pods -n jetstack-secure
NAME                                                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
agent-6bf697664b-ww9xn                                       1/1     Running   0          11m
cert-manager-75b4649b6f-hcwkc                                1/1     Running   0          21m
cert-manager-approver-policy-864d6bc45c-wvmcb                1/1     Running   0          21m
cert-manager-cainjector-5d7485d9d8-h85wn                     1/1     Running   0          21m
cert-manager-webhook-fb6b96c7-wx22d                          1/1     Running   0          21m
cert-sync-to-venafi-cert-discovery-venafi-5c5c5865c5-wjhs7   2/2     Running   0          41s
```

The variables set in the `settings.sh` will be used for sync. For e.g If the certificate sync folder is set as `Certificates\\Kubernetes\\Discovered`


## Creating TLS Secrets in the cluster
Change to the directory to `cert-sync-to-venafi`
```
cd cert-sync-to-venafi
```
We will create a couple of TLS secrets. First we will run `openssl` to create a cert and then create Kuberentes TLS secret.
Run the following 
```
make create-tls-secrets
```
This will create 2 TLS secrets in the `sandbox` namespace.  
```
Generating a 2048 bit RSA private key
......................+++
.................................................+++
writing new private key to 'artifacts/cert-sync/test-certs/tls1.key'
-----
secret/sandbox-cert1 created
Generating a 512 bit RSA private key
..................++++++++++++
.....++++++++++++
writing new private key to 'artifacts/cert-sync/test-certs/tls2.key'
-----
secret/sandbox-cert2 created

```

## Reviewing the secrets in Venafi Trust Protection Platform 
The cert-sync module will watch for TLS secrets and send the information to Venafi. This gives Venafi administrators to have an inventory of all TLS secrets that are in the cluster and set appropriate rules to govern them.

If the certificate request was fulfilled by Venafi orginally they will not be sync'd to the discovery folder as they are already managed by Venafi.

- Login to your Venafi Trust Protection Platform 
- Access the folder setup for synchronizing the secrets
- Review the certificates. In addtion to the 2 secrets created above any certs that are not issued by Venafi will be avaialble.

**NOTE** Refresh the Jetstack Secure dashboard and you will see the two TLS secrets show up in the dashboard. They will be flagged as "Not managed by Jetstack cert-manager"

