# Configuring and running Venafi Jetstack Secure isolated issuer 

## Downloading the binary
You can run isolated issuer in a docker container, in-cluster as a `Deployment` or simply by executing the binary on a machine. 

## Assumptions 
- You are a Venafi Jetstack Secure customer and have the credentials to pull images from Jetstack's private registry

## Download instuctions
- Contact the Venafi team to provide the link to download a binary if you plan to run the isolated issuer standalone. 
- Alternatively, with your ImagePullSecret, you can also pull the docker image if you want to run it in a container. 
    - `docker pull eu.gcr.io/jetstack-secure-enterprise/isolated-issuer:v0.1.0` 
- The file `settings.sh` is set to point `JS_ISOLATED_ISSUER_BINARY` to `~/Downloads/isolated-issuer-darwin-arm64/isolated-issuer` If you have it downloaded some place else or have it in the path just set it accordingly. 

## Installing the required components in cluster

From the top level directory run the following
```
make install-jetstack-isolated-issuer-config
```
This will create the required `CustomResourceDefinition`, `ClusterRole` and the `ClusterRoleBindings` for isolated issuer to operate.  

## Creating the required policies for apporving certificate requests

First, change to the `isolated-issuer` directory
```
cd isolated-issuer
```

With certificate approver controller in place, we need to create `CertificateRequestPolicies` that will automatically approve the `CertificateRequests` that isolated-issuer controller watches.

There are several enviroment variables referenced in the resources. Review the following files
[Certificate Policy](../isolated-issuer/config/venafi/cert-policy.yaml)
[RBAC](../isolated-issuer/config/venafi/cert-policy-rbac.yaml)

Run the following to create the `CertificateRequestPolicy` and the assoicated `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` 

```
make create-venafi-tpp-certificate-policy
```

## Configuring isolated issuer
The isolated-issuer binary will run with a configuration that will be provided to it. This configuration needs to be built. 
Review the template that will be used for creating this configuration.It is located [here](../isolated-issuer/config/venafi/tpp-isolated_issuer_config-template.yaml)

The variable called `JS_VENAFI_INTERMEDIATE_CA_ROOT_PEM_FILE` holds the root CA that has the ability to issue an intermediate CA that is bootstrapped to isolated-isuer. The value set for this variable is used and copied to a location that is referenced in cert-manager/caFile in the template. 

You can set the commonName to anything you prefer. The template has it set to `jetstack-isolated-issuer-vtpp.svc.cluster.local` A intermediate CA with this commonName will be requested by isolated-issuer as soon as it is started and all subsequent `CertificataeRequests` will be signed by this ICA. 

For details specific to the configuration of isolated issuer and all the avaialble options go [here](https://platform.jetstack.io/documentation/reference/isolated-issuer/configuration)

Run the following to generate the bootstrap config

```
make create-bootstrap-config-for-isolated-issuer
```
Review the file `artifacts/isolated-issuer/venafi/tpp-isolated_issuer_config.yaml`

## Providing isolated issuer access to Kubernetes cluster
The isolated issuer relies on the `kubeconfig` file to connect to the cluster. You can choose to create a separate user / service account that has access to the cluster. 
For the purpose of simplicity this specific instruction assumes that that the machine where you intend to run the isolated issuer has the `kubeconfg` available at `~/.kube/config`. If this machine is not configured with `kubeconfig` bring your kubeconfig from somewhere and drop it as `kubeconfig-for-isolated-issuer` 
To understand what the target in this demo does simply run
```
make create-kubeconfig --just-print
```
Running the above will only print the commands that will be executed. The commands themselves will not be executed. 

If you have a kubeconfig locally avaialble, run 
```
make create-kubeconfig
```
This will create a new filed called `kubeconfig-for-isolated-issuer` in the current directory. 

## Validating the isolated issuer configuration

Now that we have all the configuration part taken care of, let's validate that the isolated configuration is valid and can be used. 

Run the following 
```
make validate-issuer-config
```
If the configuration is valid then you will see the config and in the end 
```
...
...
I0909 13:49:24.979321   48099 validate.go:41]  "msg"="config is valid" 
```
Otherwise you will told what needs to be resolved. 

## Running the isolated issuer
For the sake of convenience the when you run the following you will see a command generated that will you use for running the isolated issuer. You can choose to run it in a console, or in background as a service, etc. 

```
make print-run-command-for-isolated-issuer
```
Take the output and paste it in a new terminal to start the isolated issuer.  

When it starts you will see the bootstrap process fetching a new intermediate CA that will held in memory 
````
....
I0909 13:53:01.668664   48623 venafi.go:105] bootstrap/venafi "msg"="waiting for venafi certifcate to become ready" "pickup-id"="\\VED\\Policy\\SKI\\Certificates\\ICA30\\jetstack-isolated-issuer-vtpp.svc.cluster.local"
I0909 13:53:01.668705   48623 client.go:68] bootstrap/venafi "msg"="getting venafi zone configuration for request" 
vCert: 2022/09/09 13:53:01 Got 200 OK status for POST https://tpp.example.com/vedsdk/certificates/checkpolicy
vCert: 2022/09/09 13:53:02 Got 202 Certificate \VED\Policy\SKI\Certificates\ICA30\jetstack-isolated-issuer-vtpp.svc.cluster.local is queued for processing. status for POST https://tpp.example.com/vedsdk/certificates/retrieve
vCert: 2022/09/09 13:53:04 Got 200 OK status for POST https://tpp.example.com/vedsdk/certificates/retrieve
I0909 13:53:04.347792   48623 inmemory.go:41] signer/inmemory "msg"="stored in memory certificate private key bundle" 
I0909 13:53:04.347873   48623 renewer.go:159] agent_renewer "msg"="waiting to renew certificate" "renew_time"="2022-09-29 18:43:02 +0000 UTC"
````

## Validating isolated issuer

Review the sample certificate file located [here](../isolated-issuer/config/venafi/cm_certificate.yaml)

You will see this file contains 3 certificate resources. 

Run the following 

```
make create-certificates 
```

This will attempt to create 3 Certificates. 2 of which will be marked Denied becuase they are not compliant. 

Refresh the Jetstack Secure dashboard and you will see the certificates show up.