## TLS Protect for Kubernetes Operator
js-operator is a tool to manage the configuration and installation of TLS Protect for Kubernetes (previously Jetstack Secure) components and resources.

The js-operator expects to manage cert-manager CRDs. Currently users have to uninstall cert-manager CRDs when migrating to the operator-managed installation. This means that cert-manager Certificate custom resources will get deleted and will have to be re-applied. Temporarily removing Certificates is possible without losing the actual TLS Certificates stored in Secrets- see cert-manager backup and restore guide

### Installing the operator
The js-operator installation consists of Installation CustomResourceDefinition , js-operator and cainjector Deployments, ServiceAccounts and RBAC.

The operator is packaged as a Helm chart.

The operator image used in the manifests are published to the private TLS Protect for Kubernetes Enterprise GCR at eu.gcr.io/jetstack-secure-enterprise/js-operator. Image pull secrets are available from the TLS Protect for Kubernetes web UI.

- Run initialize to create the temporary folders and to create the jestack-secure namespace and configure it with the registry secret.

```
make init
```

- Create a Helm install for the operator

```
make install-js-operator
```
- Confirm that the operator and the operator-cainjector are up and running 
```
kubectl get po -n jetstack-secure

NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
js-operator-cainjector-547d4f5fbc-4b84v   1/1     Running   0          32s
js-operator-operator-575b48b6d5-nhxh4     1/1     Running   0          32s

```

### Configuration
For this Installation TLS Protect for Kubernetes Operator will create:
cert-manager installation in jetstack-secure Namespace
approver-policy installation in jetstack-secure Namespace
venafienhancedissuer installation in jetstack-secure Namespace
trust-manager installation in jetstack-secure Namespace

- Create the cluster-addons installation
```
make operator-cluster-addons
```

- Confirm that the tlsp4k8s installations are up and running
```
kubectl get po -n jetstack-secure

NAME                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-845895cfb8-9qccr                   1/1     Running   0          38s
cert-manager-845895cfb8-jz7jt                   1/1     Running   0          38s
cert-manager-approver-policy-5855577cbc-ctrhn   1/1     Running   0          46s
cert-manager-approver-policy-5855577cbc-wmjxb   1/1     Running   0          46s
cert-manager-webhook-6694f5b55c-4lngl           1/1     Running   0          38s
cert-manager-webhook-6694f5b55c-xl7qw           1/1     Running   0          38s
js-operator-cainjector-547d4f5fbc-4b84v         1/1     Running   0          111m
js-operator-operator-575b48b6d5-nhxh4           1/1     Running   0          111m
trust-manager-5d46f768db-g6rjk                  1/1     Running   0          18s
trust-manager-5d46f768db-j4s7p                  1/1     Running   0          18s
venafi-enhanced-issuer-85cbff6ccc-99wvz         1/1     Running   0          46s
venafi-enhanced-issuer-85cbff6ccc-slw2w         1/1     Running   0          46s

```

